The Livestream Turing Test looks at the labor and production of training data for AI, through the gendered origins of the Turing test.

While computer vision and deep learning promise magic and prediction, much of the underlying algorithms still require massive amounts of training data to be effective. Some of this training data can be generated using automation. Other types of training data require human labor, through looking, reading, labelling and clicking -- work that anyone who has filled out a Google captcha (click all the squares that contain traffic lights!) might be familiar with. Behind AI, it's humans all the way down: from the humans that build algorithms to the humans who produce training data. And along with this comes our human biases that proliferate into the data and such algorithms.

For the Livestream Turing Test, humans were given a range of photos taken from Chinese livestreaming platforms. They were asked to mark the person in the image as an human-like android (machine) or human, and if human, the gender. This test draws upon Turing's original Turing Test in TK, where he proposes "Can machines think?". He writes, "The new form of the problem can be described in terms of a game which we call the 'imitation game." It is played with three people, a man (A), a woman (B), and an interrogator (C) who may be of either sex. The interrogator stays in a room apart front the other two. The object of the game for the interrogator is to determine which of the other two is the man and which is the woman. He knows them by labels X and Y, and at the end of the game he says either "X is A and Y is B" or "X is B and Y is A...We now ask the question, 'What will happen when a machine takes the part of A in this game?'"

In this Livestream Turing Test, to look like a bot was defined as having a "Snake Shaped Face", an idealized look that originated in the popular 1980s Chinese cartoon, the Calabash brothers. In the cartoon, the Snake Goddess has a v-shaped face with a thin chin and large eyes. This look became accelerated and popularized by Chinese livestreaming platforms, apps like Kuaishou and YY, where millions of viewers watch regular people dance, sing, talk and cook food for entertainment. The content of each livestream becomes negligible so long as the epitome of beauty is visually apparent: a snake shaped face that gives the livestream algorithm what it wants, a stream of endless beauty as the platform defines it. While the original Turing test assumes that 
